  Android Viva Questions

1) What is Android?
Android is an open-source, Linux-based operating system used in mobiles, tablets, televisions, etc.

2) Who is the founder of Android?
Andy Rubin.

3) Explain the Android application Architecture.
Following is a list of components of Android application architecture:
Services: Used to perform background functionalities.
Intent: Used to perform the interconnection between activities and the data passing mechanism.
Resource Externalization: strings and graphics.
Notification: light, sound, icon, notification, dialog box and toast.
Content Providers: It will share the data between applications.
4) What are the code names of android?
1.Aestro
2.Blender
3.Cupcake
4.Donut
5.Eclair
6.Froyo
7.Gingerbread
8.Honeycomb
9.Ice Cream Sandwich
10.Jelly Bean
11.KitKat
12.Lollipop
13.Marshmallow
5) What are the advantages of Android?
Open-source: It means no license, distribution and development fee.
Platform-independent: It supports Windows, Mac, and Linux platforms.
Supports various technologies: It supports camera, Bluetooth, wifi, speech, EDGE etc. technologies.
Highly optimized Virtual Machine: Android uses a highly optimized virtual machine for mobile devices, called DVM (Dalvik Virtual Machine).

6) Does android support other languages than java?
Yes, an android app can be developed in C/C++ also using android NDK (Native Development Kit). It makes the performance faster. It should be used with Android SDK.
12
7) What are the core building blocks of android?
The core building blocks of Android are:
Activity
View
Intent
Service
Content Provider
Fragment etc.

8) What is activity in Android?
Activity is like a frame or window in java that represents GUI. It represents one screen of android.

9) What are the life cycle methods of android activity?
There are 7 life-cycle methods of activity. They are as follows:
onCreate()
1.onStart()
2.onResume()
3.onPause()
4.onStop()
5.onRestart()
6.onDestroy()
10) What is intent?
It is a kind of message or information that is passed to the components. It is used to launch an activity, display a web page, send SMS, send email, etc. There are two types of intents in android:
1.Implicit Intent
2.Explicit Intent

11) How are view elements identified in the android program?
View elements can be identified using the keyword findViewById.

12) Define Android toast.
An android toast provides feedback to the users about the operation being performed by them. It displays the message regarding the status of operation initiated by the user.

13) Give a list of impotent folders in android
The following folders are declared as impotent in android:
AndroidManifest.xml
build.xml
bin/
src/
res/
assets/

14) Explain the use of 'bundle' in android?
We use bundles to pass the required data to various subfolders.

15) What is an application resource file?
The files which can be injected for the building up of a process are called as application resource file.
16) What is the implicit intent in android?
The Implicit intent is used to invoke the system components.

17) What is explicit intent in android?
An explicit intent is used to invoke the activity class.

18) How to call another activity in android?
1.	Intent i = new Intent(getApplicationContext(), ActivityTwo.class);  
2.	startActivity(i);  

19) What is service in android?
A service is a component that runs in the background. It is used to play music, handle network transaction, etc.
20) What is the name of the database used in android?
SQLite: An opensource and lightweight relational database for mobile devices.
21) What is fragment?
The fragment is a part of Activity by which we can display multiple screens on one activity.

22) What is ADB?
ADB stands for Android Debug Bridge. It is a command line tool that is used to communicate with the emulator instance.

23) What is the Google Android SDK?
The Google Android SDK is a toolset which is used by developers to write apps on Android-enabled devices. It contains a graphical interface that emulates an Android-driven handheld environment and allows them to test and debug their codes.

24) What is an APK format?
APK is a short form stands for Android Packaging Key. It is a compressed key with classes, UI's, supportive assets and manifest. All files are compressed to a single file is called APK.

25) Which language does Android support to develop an application?
Android applications are written by using the java (Android SDK) and C/C++ (Android NDK).

26) What is ADT in Android?
ADT stands for Android Development Tool. It is used to develop the applications and test the applications.

27) What is View Group in Android?
View Group is a collection of views and other child views. It is an invisible part and the base class for layouts.

28) What is the Adapter in Android?
An adapter is used to create a child view to present the parent view items.

29) What is nine-patch images tool in Android?
We can change bitmap images into nine sections with four corners, four edges, and an axis.

30) Which kernel is used in Android?
Android is a customized Linux 3.6 kernel.
31) What are the basic tools used to develop an Android app?
JDK
Eclipse+ADT plugin
SDK Tools

